The 2019–20 Hong Kong protests are ongoing protests in Hong Kong triggered by the introduction of the Fugitive Offenders amendment bill by the Hong Kong government. If enacted, the bill would have allowed the extradition of wanted criminal fugitives to territories with which Hong Kong does not currently have extradition agreements, including Mainland China and Taiwan. This led to concerns that the bill would subject Hong Kong residents and visitors to the jurisdiction and legal system of Mainland China, thereby undermining Hong Kong's autonomy and civil liberties and infringing on freedom of speech laws.

Despite a demonstration attended by hundreds of thousands on 9 June 2019, the government persisted with the bill. Protesters gathered outside the Legislative Council Complex to stall the bill's second reading on 12 June, resulting in an intense standoff between the protesters and the police. An even bigger protest took place on 16 June, just one day after the suspension of the bill to push for its complete withdrawal and in reaction to the perceived excessive use of force by the police on 12 June. As the protests progressed, the protesters laid out five key demands, namely the withdrawal of the bill, an investigation into alleged police brutality and misconduct, the release of all arrested protesters, a retraction of the official characterisation of the protests as "riots", and Chief Executive Carrie Lam's resignation along with the introduction of universal suffrage for election of the Legislative Council and the Chief Executive of Hong Kong. Police inaction when suspected triad members assaulted protesters and commuters in Yuen Long on 21 July, the police storming of Prince Edward station on 31 August further escalated the protests.

Lam withdrew the bill on 4 September, but refused to concede to the other four demands. Exactly one month later, she invoked the emergency powers to implement an anti-mask law, to counterproductive effect. Confrontations escalated and intensified. Police brutality and misconduct allegations increased, while some protesters resorted to using petrol bombs and vandalising pro-Beijing establishments and symbols representing the government. Rifts within society widened and activists from both sides assaulted each other. A number of deaths, the shooting of an unarmed protester, and the sieges of two universities in November 2019 were landmark events.

The scale of the protests dwindled following the unprecedented landslide victory of the pro-democracy camp in the District Council election in November, and the siege of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and during the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. During this period, the Chinese government actively interfered in Hong Kong's affairs. In May 2020, it had approved a national security bill that could be imposed on Hong Kong before September. This new law, seen by many as a threat to fundamental political freedoms and civil liberties in the semi-autonomous territory, sparked further outrage and protests and prompted both the US and the UK to re-evaluate their policies towards Hong Kong as they deemed that the city was no longer autonomous.

The approval ratings of the government and the police plunged to the lowest point since the 1997 handover; the Central People's Government alleged that foreign powers were instigating the conflict, although the protests have been largely described as "leaderless". The United States passed the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act on 27 November 2019 to support the protest movement. The tactics and methods surrounding the 2019 Hong Kong protests have been cited as inspiration for other protests in 2019.